00:00 - 00:30:  Long ago, a climber by the name of Emil decided to put on a weighted vest to see if it could improve his power. During a phase of training dedicated to improving his health power. He set out the goal to exist in a 20kg weight vest for a total of 9 days. This would put him at 100kg in total and the idea was that when he would take the vest off, he would suddenly feel like a feather in the wind and simply float up the boulder
00:30 - 01:00:  walls. The only problem that he quickly encountered was that 20 kilograms is a f*** ton and it quickly became obvious that this would be a massive challenge. In this video we'll take a look at the lessons that was learned from training in this for an entire week and also you know the pros and the cons and we're gonna dive into this and try and figure out if this thing is you know bullshit or good for you.
01:00 - 01:30:  But first things first, this video is sponsored by the wonderful folks over at Crimpt. Now I've worked with Crimpt a lot in the past, you've seen them on the channel several times and it's a training app for climbers essentially. There's a lot of my workouts in there already if you want to check out the app, ranging from drills for a complete beginner to expert level climbing, as well as my daily hangboard routine. And you can check out all of these for free. But I'd also like to add that they've added a new feature, which kind of
01:30 - 02:00:  allows you to create a very, you know, free formed training plan for yourself or at least a free form workout. And that's what I've been doing during this week because my workouts have been quite different from what I usually do. So being able to use this feature that allows me to, you know, kind of free form my training has been incredibly helpful throughout this experiment. I have a lot of fun projects coming up with Grimt over the coming year. One, they've helped us out with a research paper on the No Hang protocol, which is going to be released in a little while. And there's some fascinating
02:00 - 02:30:  So I was smashing through the easiest grade and I just felt like a complete god. And then I started doing the red ones.
02:30 - 03:00:  And well, you could call them shred ones because I was just shredding them up. Same goes for the black, which is kind of like the middle tier grade. They also went down right away, but I did start to feel the weight on my shoulders, you could say.
03:00 - 03:30:  Lastly, it was the white grade where I started getting shut down on basically every single move that I tried. After a while I found this one with red hopes and this quickly became what I wanted to be my project for this week. The difference is perhaps a bit tricky to see since it just seems like I'm almost letting go but in reality just because I couldn't produce enough force to my fingers I kind of couldn't generate any proper momentum and it was hard to feel any sort of flow in my climbing when this started to happen.
03:30 - 04:00:  So after the first day in the vest, it kind of proved that this was actually really fun to train in and I wanted to see what the coming days would have. But first, I wanted to show it to the boys and see what they had to say about it. Alright, Nikan, you're trying the weight first. How does it feel? I feel powerful. It's like the bane, like the vest. It's like this. Just walk around and be like...
04:00 - 04:30:  You didn't know the way till you were a grown man. I was born in it and molded by it. So yeah, it'll be cool to see what kind of crazy things we can come up with. But campus. Getting everyone going on this. Even Tio is on right now. Getting ready to try out the weight. I'm going to try the campus with this on.
04:30 - 05:00:  Just got a max off that shit
05:00 - 05:30:  pull-ups. It's like you don't like the way you move and like the way you generate force it feels the same as when you're normally climbing but you're just like on mercury. It's just like fucking crazy. I feel like if you had macro holds you had a spray wall that was all big holds no risk of injury. This could be like game-changing. So okay. Cory can you put this off for a second?
05:30 - 06:00:  I'm not sure what's happening but I think it's a weightless involved and some futuristic approach to get it on
06:00 - 06:30:  I think Cordy will do very well on jugs and she's looking extra athletic these days. Yeah, can you see my abs? They're like... Yes, anyways, no, I'm not confident at all. But is this the first time where it was a lifetime? Yeah, I've never managed to put one on. Well, I'm excited. Why should I? I guess we'll know in the end of this video if it's worth or not.
06:30 - 07:00:  I'm still on the other side.
07:00 - 07:30:  Well, this thing... It doesn't make sense. Kone is really selling this video for EML. I'm sorry! You really don't have to do much more than this, I guess. I'm just gonna try climbing it, because then it's 107 kilos or something. God damn. Let's experience how this is. Okay. Okay. Yeah, it's nice.
07:30 - 08:00:  It's nice. I love this stuff. Because you feel like an anime character and then you get like some extra power and get psyched. All right, session two is underway. The goal is to get more accustomed to the best. I'm gonna try to kind of do the folders I was working on last, just in different parts. So I want to do the red one in two parts, but I'm definitely getting more used to using this thing.
08:00 - 08:30:  Second half is done. Not without a fight, but still that's a lot of progress and just from wrestling and getting used to this thing. So I think I'm starting to learn how to climb in it, which is cool. So I guess next step will be to
08:30 - 09:00:  go from the bottom and try and do it into that position.
09:00 - 09:30:  Okay, that was some heavenly good progress. I mean, falling off the last move is way quicker adaptations than I expected or not adaptations, but you know, getting used to the movement. And I feel like I climbed okay. I was just climbing as if I was a lot heavier. Like I didn't have as much grip strength and I had to rely much more on like precision and execution, which is kind of what I want from this, like training power on like boulders that are at an like EDC level, but you can just push them up with this weight thing. But yeah, definitely another attempt to try and
09:30 - 10:00:  get a white one done. That's kind of what I set as the goal for the week. So if we can do that, maybe we can push it way further. Yeah. In the coming days.
10:00 - 10:30:  Thanks, yeah, oh sick Well, that is some some very interesting progression Not that it felt easy, but it felt like not limit which is really cool for such a quick, you know, progression ladder So we're gonna move on over to training now instead and do some physical
10:30 - 11:00:  power stuff and get a bit stronger which is again the purpose of all this so yeah let's do some camping. After day two of climbing in this thing I was completely sold that this thing would help me push myself hard so I decided to do something a little bit different for day three. I was gonna do a volume session today but it was such a beautiful day suns out so I wanted to try some outdoor climbing with it so there's an 8a behind me that's actually the first 8a I ever did kind of powerful but on good holds and it's gonna be an
11:00 - 11:30:  interesting process trying it with the vest. Okay, so without the vest it feels fine still, but that I was expecting. This is kind of the crux of the boulder, so I'll try that a few times with the vest and see if I can do any of the moves. Honestly, not expecting to. If I could do the moves, that would be kind of crazy.
11:30 - 12:00:  But yeah, it's a fun challenge. Yeah, let's give it a burn. That was surprisingly good. I, uh, well, give it a few attempts. That was fun. I had a good time. All right, that was... I missed the last one.
12:00 - 12:30:  left hand quite a bit actually. Rest up and try and do that. Siked. Yeah, so close. I'll just give it a few more attempts, but still that was pretty sick. But I'll try starting from there, do it to the top and then get the sand.
12:30 - 13:00:  All right, the weight that was going through my left heel was like five times as much as on the first attempt Which gave me full control to move up to the jug I'm a bit We have to leave in like five minutes. So I think maybe this will have to be a project for Maybe for the end of this video if the weather stays as nice
13:00 - 13:30:  But yeah, this is the end of day three of training. So tomorrow maybe a little bit of volume and then back on this later on in the week. Slight!
13:30 - 14:00:  But after a while I started to feel really worn down from that as well and went for some preventative gym exercises. I want to give a quick shout out to the JM Press that's kind of helped me create these indestructible elbows. And yeah, to all my tendonitis homies out there, definitely try this exercise out if you want to bulletproof your elbows. But anyway, I took a rest day and went back for day five of training in the vest. Okay, I think this is day five in the vest and Mathilde has been hustling and getting me on way harder.
14:00 - 14:30:  stuff that I'm intended to climb so I'm gonna I'm gonna yeah scream my ass off on some moves and then surrender and try some easier stuff
14:30 - 15:00:  I think that'll be the only boulder I show for today. That was almost max effort and I tried that on the first day, couldn't do the second move. So it's a major problem.
15:00 - 15:30:  progress happening, although everything is still incredibly heavy. But yeah, psyched about that one. So this session ended up being 45 minutes long, which is about three hours less than my regular session, two hours less. But like the complete deranged human being I am, I decided to head outside for the final day of using the vest. We're on session two on the project. It snowed a lot, which was surprising, but it's still all right, I think. It's kind of like this light snow that I think if I brush it off the rock,
15:30 - 16:00:  I might get a bit wet at the top so we'll see if I do the top out or not. But the goal is to try and climb the boulder. So yeah, let's get going. I'm gonna warm up and give it a whirl.
16:00 - 16:30:  My knee is a little bit tweaky, so I think I'll only give it like a few attempts. Well the last thing I want to do is injure myself and I think one of the big lessons from using this weight vest thing is that it's freaking heavy on the hips when you walk around in a lot. So I think that's where the knee thing is coming from that you know I've been like my hips and legs are stiffer than they usually are. All right.
16:30 - 17:00:  Okay. It's brutal. Alright guys. It's been a rough eight days of being in this thing and it's time to colloquid and discuss the pros and cons of
17:00 - 17:30:  the vest for training. So yeah, let's have a chat.
17:30 - 18:00:  just deteriorates and you're screwed for a long time. So I think with anybody who's trying to like push themselves, this is something they'll encounter in their training and you need to take a step back, relax and that's what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna continue using the vest for a little while, even though I'm in my power phase because I need to recover and make sure that I have enough energy to actually sustain my sessions. So yeah, I just wanted to point that out because I think if you've been watching this video for this long, maybe you're thinking, oh, it'd be fun to try, but be careful, be really careful with your training regardless if you're using a vest
18:00 - 18:30:  or not and make sure you don't get too tired. Anyways, that being said, let's dive into the pros and cons of using this fun little tool for training. So number one, you look and you feel like a badass. But in all seriousness, I think this is really good to incorporate into campus training as long as you're not overdoing it. And I also think you should probably add a little bit less than I did. So I would say like 10% of your body weight is probably a good level to add. It does help you, you know, get like more power into your sessions without having to do really big moves.
18:30 - 19:00:  and catching things extended. So I think it gives you more control over your training overall. Because you also learn to hit that level. You'll notice when you're fatigued. You'll notice when your sessions have just been too long. But for me personally, I don't always do that. And with the vest, it was so clear. As soon as my session should have been over, my body was just like, oh, you're out. It does help you understand your body a little bit better and how tired you actually are. And that's it for the post, now for the cons.
19:00 - 19:30:  you look like a douchebag. I think it's also very easy to injure yourself when you're wearing this thing. If you're not very perceptive, if you're not listening to your body enough, just a slight mishap, just overusing it a little bit and you're gonna be screwed. So yeah, you definitely need to be careful with it. I also noticed that my movement pattern as a climber was just heavily disrupted. And when I took off the vest and went back to normal climbing, I was just, you know, like my feet were slipping, my body was like tensing in rear direction,
19:30 - 20:00:  directions that I usually don't. I was basically, I couldn't apply proper technique. Not to say that I'm the most technical climber in the world, but the little technique I had was suddenly gone and what was left was just pure power and that isn't actually so good for actual climbing. It's good for doing powerful things like 159 on the campus run, but for this specific, like to apply it to climbing, you need to do things very differently and use the vest a lot less than I was. But I guess that's it for the cons list. I just want to answer the question.
20:00 - 20:30:  who should be using this. And I think if you're a person who wants to push your training in a new and unique way, I do think it's fun to train with the best. It definitely, like for climbing commercial boulders in the gym, I had a lot more fun than I might usually do. So that goes on the, you know, if you want to spice things up, that's a good usage for it. And obviously, if you're trying to do powerful exercises and you want to change the level a little bit, it's kind of like adding weight to hangboarding, but applying it on a campus board instead.
20:30 - 21:00:  Just bear in mind that when you increase the load, especially with weights, you also need to be more mindful on how much you're actually pushing your body. But anyway, that's all I have for you folks. I hope you enjoyed this video and make sure to check out Krimptz and I'll see you all in the next one. Peace my homies.
